in this video we are going to create a
pull request and see how it is handled
in the multi branch pipeline created in
the previous video in terms of theory we
will see what a pull request is in the
practical part we will create a pull
request via github see what happens in
the multi branch pipeline when a pull
request is initiated and inspected
pipeline with a failing stage via blue
ocean let's start by defining what a
pull request is the pull request is a
request made by a developer to the code
maintainer to pull a source code change
hence the name pull request the code
maintainer reviews the change and can
approve it and merge the code into the
main branch usually the master branch in
a CI workflow the pull request can
automatically trigger tests on a CI
server like Jenkins initiating pull
requests is a popular software
development practice especially in open
source software and is particularly
useful for discussing reviewing and
documenting code changes now let's see
what we are going to do in the demo part
first we will configure scan repository
trigger in the multi branch pipeline job
so the Jenkins can pull code changes
from github on a regular interval then
we will create a new branch in github
and make some changes in particular we
will intentionally break one of the
testing stages so that we can see what
happens when a developer tries to commit
code changes that break the test suite
then we will initiate a pull request on
github and observe what happens in the
multi branch pipeline we will see how
the pipeline visualization and blue
ocean helps to debug failed stages and
check how a pull request with a failing
build is displayed in github without any
further ado let's start the demo go to
Jenkins and click on the multi branch
pipeline created in the previous video
click on configure and then click on the
tab scan repository triggers here we are
going to ask a jenkins to pull the
github repository every few minutes in
order to rea index the repository and
discover any change pushed to a branch
we take the box periodically if not
otherwise run and in interval we select
one minute
Jenkins pulls github every minute in
order to be notified of changes you may
remember that in section 3 I said that
push notifications are better than
pooling it is possible to implement a
push notification from github but you
need to have jenkins deployed on a
domain name or a stable IP address we
can't do it with jenkins deployed on
localhost finally click on save now go
to github if you follow the previous
video you should have a fork of my
github repository hands on jenkins under
branch you can see the master branch end
if you push to a branch in the previous
video another branch in my case sandro /
video 5 3 i select the branch that
contains the jenkins file pushed in the
previous video in order to switch to
this branch if you push to master select
master we are now going to create a new
branch based on the branch containing
the jenkins file click again on the
branch selector and type the name of the
new branch in the textbox I call it
sandro / video 5 4 but you can call it
as you want
I want to create this new branch from
the branch Sandro / video 5 3 so I
choose this option
this creates a new branch and switches
to it
now let's edit the Jenkins file click on
Jenkins file
and then on the pencil icon to edit the
file directly on github we are now going
to change one test in order to make it
fail we do this in order to see what
happens in Jenkins and github when a
developer creates a pull request with
changes that break the test suite choose
one of the test stages and inside steps
edit the shell command here I add
semicolon exit one at the end of the
echo command
this causes the shell command to exit
with an error code we use this command
to simulate a failing test
I also want to fix a mistake I made in
the previous video the overall stage
name that runs tests should be called
test instead of tests Firefox
therefore I change it here after editing
this change scroll down and add a commit
message for example make a test fail
I have multiple email addresses related
to my github account so I choose the
relevant one if you have just one you
will not have this option make sure you
commit directly to the newly created
branch finally click on commit changes
now let's create a pool request click on
the tab pool requests
and then on the button new pool request
say we want to compare the branch
created in video 5 3 and the branch just
created in this video and the base
choose branch you created in the
previous video in my case
Sandra / video 5 3 in compare choose the
branch you created in this video in my
case
Sandra / video 5 for github we show the
differences between the two branches and
let you know if you can merge the code
of your new branch
Sandra / video 5 into an existing branch
Sandra / video 5 3 now let's create a
pull request by clicking on the button
create pull request
in the title box type the name of this
pool request for example I type make a
test fail
it is a good practice to describe your
pool request in this box and maybe
assign it to someone in your team for a
review but we won't go into this for now
finally scroll down and click on create
pool request
now go to the multi-branch pipeline job
in Jenkins you can wait about a minute
to see the trigger happening or if you
don't want to wait you can click on the
scan repository now to force re-indexing
of all branches and pull requests click
on open blue ocean and then on the pool
requests tab you can see the pull
requests we just made on github click on
it
you can now visualize the pipeline and
see if it completes successfully or if
it breaks as expected the pipeline broke
at one of the test stages you can click
on the failing stage and inspect the
console output in order to debug what
went wrong
as you can see the blue ocean visual
pipeline allows you to debug a broken
pipeline very easily now let's go back
to github and see how a broken pipeline
is displayed because Jenkins and github
communicate with each other you can see
the result of the build added to the
pool request click on detail and you can
immediately visualize the pipeline in
Jenkins pretty neat isn't it note that
just pushing a new branch also triggered
the multi branch pipeline in fact you
don't need to create a pull request to
see if the code on a branch fails
with the multi-branch pipeline you can
continuously build and test as soon as
you commit changes to a branch this is
the end of the demo for this video and
the end of section five let's recap what
you learned in this section in terms of
theory we described what blue ocean is
and listed some of the advantages of
using blue ocean in the practical part
we install the blue ocean created a
multi branch pipeline using blue oceans
visual editor and explore the
interactions between the Jenkins and
github so now test what you learned in
this section by heading to the companion
github repository in here you will find
a few questions to test your Jenkins
knowledge and a practical exercise you
will also find some suggested solution
to the exercises and if you want you can
interact with me by a github in the next
section we are going to integrate
Jenkins with cloud platforms like AWS